---
title: "Sides"
date: 2019-09-13T15:52:22+02:00
draft: true
slug: "sides"

toc: true
autoCollapseToc: true
---

This one is unexpected to say the least.

You see, for months I've been meaning to start writing actual content for good.
I naively thought that by having my blogging infrastructure set up I would have
no more impediments to just "get on writin' yo!", that I would finally find the
inspiration and motivation to start talking about things I care about.

And oh gosh was I wrong!

<!--more-->

I think we need to have a real conversation here people.

A lot has happened in my life recently. I won't bore you with the details but
the important part is that I finally had the time I needed to take a step back
and have a real good look into who I really am and how do I fit in this great
wide world[^1].

---

I love the internet. I spend a lot of time roaming there, reading articles,
chuckling at dank memes, and so on. At the same time I sometimes really am
scared by it, but not necessarily for the reasons you might thinking of. I am a
software engineer. I typically don't engage in online discussions, although I am
an avid follower. When I come across discussions among other people in tech, it
seems like there are two vocal sides at war (and I know for a fact that this is
simply not true).

---

It's hard to realize when you are wrong. It's even harder to accept when you
wronged other people. But the hardest thing of them all is to apologize. And by
apologize, I certainly do not mean just shrugging and mumbling "I'm sorry". It's
building a proper apology that takes an amount of courage and empathy I would
never have suspected before. The reasons for this are many. For starters, it
requires a lot of empathy. You have to realize why your words or your actions
caused damage to the people you are apologizing to. You have to accept that you
did or said something hurtful, otherwise the first thing you'll do is reach for
excuses. And let me emphasize this critical point right there: **excuses should
_NEVER_ come up in a proper apology**. Actually, excuses make your apology
worse. They basically mean that you've learned absolutely nothing, that you
attributed your misbehaviour to a random course of events that lead you to hurt
people and that you had no real responsibility in so doing.

How many times have I angrily said "Ok, you win, there: I'm sorry! Happy?". Or
the even more insidious one "I'm sorry if I hurt you". There's no "if"! She had
been hurt. I did that. I hurt her!

What I should have said is "I'm sorry I hurt you. I trully am. Maybe I can't
tell you it won't ever happen again, but I promise you that I will do my
absolute best to make sur it doesn't."

Some of you might disagree with that last part. It's a kind of a way out, but I
don't see it that way. Promises are really, notoriously hard to keep. And each
time you break one, they lose value exponentially. Depending on the hurtful
thing you did or said, you might not be able to make such a promise. Maybe it's
something that might come up again one day as a total accident. But you can
promise that you will do your best, and show it by, you know, actually doing
your best! People aren't stupid for the most part, and for most of them, seeing
you try is good enough. It means you care.

---

[^1]: Finally starting to see a therapist may have played a part too.
